Read me before you test
------

Author: Ruoxi Ren and Rebeca Becdach

# Files
## `Nodes.py`
* It defines the structure of the node in the searching process.
* The structure of the node includes:
    * `State`: the current state of the pancakes from bottom to up.
    * `Parent`: the parent of the current node which means the state before flipping.
    * `CurrentCost`: the actual cost of the current node which is the sum of the backward cost and the step cost.
    * `TotalCost`: the sum of the current cost and the forward cost
## `Frontier.py`
* It defines the class of the frontier and relative operation.
* The frontier is an array that stores the potential nodes to be explored.
* The operation of the frontier includes:
    * `add`: adding a node to a frontier.
    * `ExtractMinimum`: popping the node with the minimum total cost
    * `Contains`: deciding whether the frontier has already contained a node of a specific state. If it is, it returns `true` and the index of the node. If not, it returns `false` and none.
    * `Replace`: replacing the node in the same state of the given node with the one of the smaller total cost.
    * `GetLength`: returning the length of the frontier.
## `CostFunctions.py`
* It defines the cost functions which may be useful in the searching process. It includes:
    * The heuristic function `Gap`: according to the reference, it is the gap difference between each pancake.
    * The step cost function `StepCost`: each step of flipping costs 1. This function is used in the test.
    * The number cost function `NumberCost`: each step of flipping costs the number of the pancakes that are flipped. This function is not used in the test but it is a possible way.
## `FlipFunctions.py`
* It defines how to flip the pancakes.
* It also defines the way to get all the possible children of the current node which are generated by flipping the top n pancakes, with n between 2 and 10.
## `SearchFunctions.py`
* It defines the implementation of A star algorithm and the uniform cost search algorithm.
* It also defines how to generate the procedure of pancakes flipping by making use of the `Parent` of the node.
## `PrintFunctions.py`
* It defines how to print the solution nicely.
## `Test.py`
* It defines the user API and the call of the search algorithm.

# Assumption and Important Notes
* It is supposed that in this implementation each step of flipping should cost 1 no matter how many pancakes are flipped.
* It is important that to reach the optimal solution with the minimum steps, the step cost function should be greater than 1 according to the reference as well as the admissibility of the heuristic function. However, if the step cost function is multiplied with a coefficient that is less than 1, the number of iterations needed to obtain the solution may be largely reduced, most obviously with the coefficient less than 1/5. This may not lead to an optimal solution because it refutes the admissibility of the heuristic function.

# Test
## Development environment
* Language: Python 3.6.4 64-bit
* Text editor: Visual Studio Code
* Operating System: macOS Mojave 10.14
## How to test
* Run `Test.py` with the argument denoting the search algorithm to be used 
    * Command: `python3 Test.py -Astar` to run A star algorithm to perform a search or `python3 Test.py -UCS` to run uniform cost search algorithm to perform a search
    * Note: the argument of `-AStar`, `-astar`, `-A` and `-a` can also be seen as the command to run A star algorithm; the argument of `-ucs`, `-U` and `-u` can also be seen as the command to run uniform cost search algorithm.
## Test Cases
Note that the output is only for reference. The actual program layout may differ.
### Test case #1
#### Input array
[1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 7, 10, 9]
#### A Star Seach algorithm output
```
Loop for 14 times.
The searching took 0.00485992431640625 seconds.
It cost 4 steps to reach the goal state.
Here is the solution:
[1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 7, 10, 9]
[1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 7]
[1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 10, 9, 8]
[1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10]
[10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1]
```
#### Uniform Cost Search algorithm output
```
Loop for 3876 times.
The searching took 54.34605312347412 seconds.
It cost 4 steps to reach the goal state.
Here is the solution:
[1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 7, 10, 9]
[1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 7]
[1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 10, 9, 8]
[1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10]
[10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1]
```

### Test case #2
#### Input array
[3, 7, 5, 1, 4, 2, 8, 9, 6, 10]
#### A Star Seach algorithm output
```
Loop for 38 times.
The searching took 0.017772912979125977 seconds.
It cost 9 steps to reach the goal state.
Here is the solution:
[3, 7, 5, 1, 4, 2, 8, 9, 6, 10]
[3, 7, 5, 1, 4, 2, 8, 9, 10, 6]
[3, 7, 6, 10, 9, 8, 2, 4, 1, 5]
[3, 7, 6, 5, 1, 4, 2, 8, 9, 10]
[10, 9, 8, 2, 4, 1, 5, 6, 7, 3]
[10, 9, 8, 2, 3, 7, 6, 5, 1, 4]
[10, 9, 8, 2, 3, 4, 1, 5, 6, 7]
[10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 1, 4, 3, 2]
[10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 1, 2, 3, 4]
[10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1]
```
#### Uniform Cost Search algorithm output
```
Loop for 9135 times.
The searching took 400.43851709365845 seconds.
It cost 9 steps to reach the goal state.
Here is the solution:
[3, 7, 5, 1, 4, 2, 8, 9, 6, 10]
[3, 7, 5, 1, 4, 2, 8, 9, 10, 6]
[3, 7, 6, 10, 9, 8, 2, 4, 1, 5]
[3, 7, 6, 5, 1, 4, 2, 8, 9, 10]
[10, 9, 8, 2, 4, 1, 5, 6, 7, 3]
[10, 9, 8, 2, 3, 7, 6, 5, 1, 4]
[10, 9, 8, 2, 3, 4, 1, 5, 6, 7]
[10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 1, 4, 3, 2]
[10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 1, 2, 3, 4]
[10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1]
```
